In this section,
we're going to review Kafka's support for inbound and outbound channel adapters.
Let's begin by looking at how to publish a message
to Kafka and how to receive it.
The inbound channel adapter we're going to use is the KafkaMessageSource.
We'll create it as a being and configure it to listen on a specific topic,
and then annotate it with the inbound channel adapter,
so that when it receives messages, it publishes them to a specific channel.
Next,
the outbound channel adapter we're going to use is
the KafkaProducerMessageHandler.
We're going to configure it with the KafkaTemplate that uses a ProducerFactory,
and set the topic and key to which we want to publish it.
Then we'll configure a service activater so that when a
message is published to a specific channel,
the KafkaProducerMessageHandler will send the message to Kafka.
Creating an inbound channel adapter for Kafka is pretty straightforward.
We define a channel that we'll listen on,
and then create a KafkaMessageSource being annotated with the
InboundChannelAdapter annotation that publishes messages to that
channel as messages are received.
We configure a poller to check for new messages every 1 second.
The KafkaMessageSource is created with a ConsumerFactory that
Spring integration will create for us when it sees the Spring
Kafka libraries in our class path,
and a ConsumerProperties object that specifies the topic
we want to listen on and a GroupId.
The Kafka consumer API defines both a low‑level consumer, as well as
a high‑level abstraction called consumer groups.
In this example, we'll only have one consumer,
so the GroupId doesn't mean much, but if we had multiple consumers,
all of the consumers in the same group would process the
same set of messages concurrently. the outbound channel
adapter is a little bit more complex.
We first create a ProducerFactory that specifies the address of the broker we're
connecting to and defines how to serialize keys and values.
In this case, we serialize both of them to strings.
Next we create a KafkaTemplate that our publisher
will use to send messages to Kafka.
It uses the ProducerFactory configuration.
Finally,
we create a KafkaProducerMessageHandler that uses the
KafkaTemplate we just created. We specify the name of the topic we
want to publish to, as well as a message key.
The value is the message body, which we're going to send as a JSON string,
and the key specifies the partition in the topic to
which we publish the message.
You are required to tell Kafka the partition that you
want to publish the message to.
In this case,
we simply specify a reservation key, but if you're
publishing a large number of messages,
then you'll want to publish messages to different
partitions, so that Kafka can balance its load.
The example for this section is another reservation integration.
In this case, the baz reservation system is publishing its reservations to Kafka.
Thebaz reservation service will publish a baz reservation to
Kafka using a KafkaProducerMessageHandler,
which will be sent to a reservation topic by the Kafka broker.
The baz reservation listener will receive the
reservation using a KafkaMessageSource.
Running Kafka in a Docker container is a little bit more work this time
because Kafka relies on Zookeeper to manage its brokers,
topics, and users.
Furthermore,
many of the Docker images are configured to run multiple
brokers and restrict access to other Docker containers
running in the same environment.
The wurstmeister/kafka image provides a single broker
configuration that we can access from our local computer.
In order to run this,
you need to download the docker‑compose‑single‑broker.yml file,
which you can get by cloning its Git repository.
Once you have that, you can start it using docker‑compose,
which is a tool included with Docker that allows you
to configure multiple containers,
create relationships between them, and so forth.
To start both Kafka and Zookeeper from this docker‑compose file, execute the
following command, docker‑compose ‑f to specify the file, which in this case
is docker‑compose‑single‑broker.yml, then the command up to start all
containers in the specified YAML file, and the ‑d parameter to start them in a
daemon mode as background processes.
Afterwards,
you can run docker ps to list all running containers to
make sure that both started properly.
I've occasionally seeing the Kafka container die,
probably related to connecting to Zookeeper.
So if that happens, you just need to run the command again.
It won't start a new Zookeeper, it will start whichever containers
in the YAML file are not running, namely Kafka.
Let's look at the code and see this in action. We'll be
building two applications this time.
First,
the baz reservation publisher will be publishing baz reservations to
Kafka, and then the Kafka Globomantics reservation service will receive those reservations and log them.